README.md, before:

# Shopify Vite

<a href="https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/actions"><img src="https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="License"></a>

Modern frontend tooling for Shopify theme development using Vite for a best-in-class developer experience.

## Packages

| Package                                                                             | Changelog                                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [vite-plugin-shopify](./packages/vite-plugin-shopify)                               | [Changelog](./packages/vite-plugin-shopify/CHANGELOG.md)                |

## Examples

| Theme App Extension
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Shopify Vite Extension](https://github.com/montalvomiguelo/theme-app-extension-vite)   |

---

| Theme                                                                |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Hydrogen Theme](https://github.com/montalvomiguelo/hydrogen-theme)  |
| [Preact Shopify](./examples/preact-shopify)                          |
| [Basic Example](./examples/vite-shopify-example)                     |

## Contribution

[Read our contributing guide](https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Add links to the documentation website

README.md, after:

# Shopify Vite

<a href="https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/actions"><img src="https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/workflows/CI/badge.svg" alt="Build Status"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-shopify"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/vite-plugin-shopify" alt="License"></a>

Modern frontend tooling for Shopify theme development using Vite for a best-in-class developer experience.

## Packages

| Package                                                                             | Changelog                                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [vite-plugin-shopify](./packages/vite-plugin-shopify)                               | [Changelog](./packages/vite-plugin-shopify/CHANGELOG.md)                |

## Documentation

Visit the [documentation website](https://shopify-vite.barrelny.com/) to check out the [guides](https://shopify-vite.barrelny.com/guide/) and searchable [configuration reference](https://shopify-vite.barrelny.com/guide/configuration.html).

## Contribution

[Read our contributing guide](https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/barrel/barrel-shopify/blob/main/LICENSE.md).
